GAN



我们在描述生成的数据时，可以用 generated samples\fake samples\synthetic samples



Generative adversarial networks (GANs) offer a distinct and promising approach that focuses on a game-theoretic formulation for training an image synthesis model (Goodfellow et al., 2014).





produce convincing image samples on datasets with low variability and low resolution (Denton et al., 2015; Radford et al., 2015).





“Generative” because they output things like images rather than predictions about input (like “hotdog or not”); “adversarial networks” because they use two neural networks competing with each other in a “[cat-and-mouse game](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/01/02/technology/ai-generated-photos.html)”, like a cashier and a counterfeiter: one trying to fool the other into thinking it can generate real examples, the other trying to distinguish real from fake.



it’s a 0和游戏



Unlike other deep learning neural network models that are trained with a loss function until convergence, a GAN generator model is trained using a second model called a discriminator that learns to classify images as real or generated. Both the generator and discriminator model are trained together to maintain an equilibrium.



Generative models can be classified into two broad categories of explicit and implicit approaches. The former class assumes access to the model likelihood function, whereas the latter uses a sampling mechanism to generate data. Examples of explicit models are variational auto-encoders (VAEs) [19, 20] and PixelCNN [21]. Examples of implicit generative models are GANs. Explicit models are typically trained by maximizing the likelihood or its lower bound. GANs aim to approximate a data distribution P, using a parameterized model distribution Q. They achieve this by jointly optimizing two adversarial networks: a generator and a discriminator. The generator G is trained to synthesize from a noise vector an image that is close to the true data distribution. The discriminator D is optimized to accurately distinguish between the synthesized images coming from the generator and the real images from the data distribution. GANs have shown a dramatic ability to generate realistic high resolution images.





The software uses a generative adversarial network (GAN) approach, in which two neural networks play a game of cat and mouse, one attempting to generate artificial images indistinguishable from real photographs, the other attempting to tell the difference. The two networks train one another; after a few weeks, the image-creating network can produce images like the fakes on this website.



意义

GAN is the most interesting idea in the last 10 years in ML -Yann LeCun



It seems like a rather technical issue, but I really think it opens the door to an entire world of possibilities.

打开新的大门

表征



**Application**

They are used widely in image generation, video generation and voice generation.



生成了假的干什么呢

2018 10 25 一副GAN生成的画在佳士得拍卖行卖出了

put the first AI portrait in Christie’s

[Christie’s sold a portrait](https://www.theverge.com/2018/10/23/18013190/ai-art-portrait-auction-christies-belamy-obvious-robbie-barrat-gans) for $432,000 that had been generated by a GAN



为什么要随机噪声

因为G学习的是从一个分布到另一个分布的映射 z->data manifold

G也掌握了图片的特征，而且是图片本质的特征





So discriminative algorithms map features to labels

generative algorithms attempt to predict features given a certain label. Assuming this email is spam, how likely are these features? 

While discriminative models care about the relation between `y` and `x`, generative models care about “how you get x.” They allow you to capture `p(x|y)`,



That said, generative algorithms can also be used as classifiers. It just so happens that they can do more than categorize input data.



Discriminative models learn the boundary between classes

Generative models model the distribution of individual classes







They consist of hundreds and thousands of labeled data. In other words, these collections are composed of *(x,y)* pairs where (x) is the raw data, an image matrix for instance, and (y) is a description of what that data point (x) represents.





This kind of situation could be modeled as a minimax game in Game Theory. And this process is called Adversarial Process.





GAN [9] can generate samples similar to a data distribution through a two-player game between a generator G and a discriminator D.

image synthesis remains the main objective of GAN